Now it's important to understand how authentication works because if you're having a web development
background you might be used to authentication working a bit differently.
So we have a server firebase in our case but that can be any server to which we talk from our ReACT
native mobile app.
And this is the server which typically also authenticates us so where we can send the email and the
password to user entered to create a new user or to log a user in.
So we send that off data to the server.
Now the server responds with something for example with an error if the credentials are wrong or with
a success response if they're correct and in a traditional web application a server would then also
store a so-called session on the server and return a session key to the front end.
So to the browser for example that basically allows the browser to find out that the user using this
app in this browser is authenticated.
Now this works a bit differently for mobile apps because there you communicate with service which are
stateless for example a RESTful API eyes or a graph to LAPD.
And there you don't really have a session because the server doesn't care about the individual clients.
It doesn't save any data about whether you are authenticated or not.
Instead you work with so-called tokens.
The idea is not too far away from the session idea.
When you log in and the server checks the e-mail and the password and determines that both is correct
the server creates a token.
It uses a certain algorithm for that and it uses a key a private key which only the server knows this
token is then returned to you.
So to your app for example to react native mobile app and they are you can stored a token in some storage
for example in the redux storage.
So in memory managed with redux in memory whilst your app is running.
Now why do we need that token for one as long as we have that token we can determine in the mobile app
that the user is probably locked in and day off for a forward the user from the authentication screen
to our main app screens and so on and when the user clicks logout we would simply delete that token.
But we also need that token for something else on the server as I mentioned we typically have certain
resources certain you are ELTs which are only exposed to logged in users.
So for example in our app creating products is probably not something every user should be able to do.
And therefore if you want to send the request to such a protected resource you need to attach that token
to the request so that the server which created the token in which they offer can check with that private
key whether the token is valid so that the server can determine whether you have access or not.
If you send a wrong token or an invalid token or no token at all access will be denied and you get back
an error if you have a valid token.
And again the server is able to check whether to token is valid or not you will be granted access and
you can therefore it and access to resources write data whatever it is.
This is how authentication works.
And this is how we will implement it here.
Now the good thing is firebase which we're using as a dummy backend already has all that token creation
user management stuff built in so we don't need to worry about that.
We just need to send the right requests and then manage that token and we're good to go.